1. Explain about the different complex data types in pig ?
Pig supports 3 complex data types-
Tuple : An ordered set of fields. Tuple is represented by braces. Example: (1,2)
Bag : A set of tuples is called a bag. Bag is represented by flower or curly braces. Example: {(1,2),(3,4)}
Map : A set of key value pairs. Map is represented in a square brackets. Example: [key#value] .The # is used to separate key and value.

 How can you interact with the shell in Apache pig ?
 The shell in apache pig is called grunt shell, if you are talking about this grunt shell then you can launch by using simple 
 command “pig” or “pig -x local”.
If you are talking about interacting with linux terminal from pig’s grunt shell then you can use “sh” prefix followed by linux terminal
commands in pig grunt shell.
For example you can list your files in your current directory from grunt shell as
grunt> sh ls -l
However, the latest version of pig as of now 0.16 supports a few commands even with out using this prefix “sh”

 Explain how pig differs from Map reduce ?
 PIG is a data flow language, the key focus of Pig is manage the flow of data from input source to output store. As part of managing this
 data flow it moves data feeding it to process1, taking output and feeding it to process2. The core features are preventing execution of
 subsequent stages if previous stage fails, manages temporary storage of data and most importantly compresses and rearranges processing 
 steps for faster processing. While this can be done for any kind of processing tasks Pig is written specifically for managing data flow
 of Map reduce type of jobs. Most if not all jobs in a Pig are map reduce jobs or data movement jobs. Pig allows for custom functions to
 be added which can be used for processing in Pig, some default ones are like ordering, grouping, distinct, count etc.
 Map reduce on the other hand is a data processing paradigm, it is a framework for application developers to write code in so that its 
 easily scaled to PB of tasks, this creates a separation between the developer that writes the application vs the developer that scales 
 the application. Not all applications can be migrated to Map reduce but good few can be including complex ones like k-means to simple
 ones like counting uniques in a dataset.
 
 Explain how pig differs from sql?
SQL is declarative and Pig is procedural to a large extent.
SQL is a general purpose database language that has extensively been used for both transactional and analytical queries. Hive, on the
other hand, is built with an analytical focus.
Hive support only structured data and have a distributed data warehouse.
Hive use separate query language called HQL goes beyond standard SQL.Pig use own language called piglatin is the relational flow language.
pig can process both structured and unstructured data. It is a data flow language and environment for exploring very large datasets.
SQL is the oldest data analysis option among the three and its ability to update itself in line with growing user expectations make it
relevant even today.

 Explain the scalar data types in pig?
 Int: An integer. Ints are represented in interfaces by java.lang.Integer. They store a four byte signed integer. Constant integers are
 expressed as integer numbers, for example 12. 
Long: A long integer. Long are represented in interfaces by java.lang.Long. They store a eight byte signed integer. Constants are
expressed as integer numbers with a L appended, for example 34L.
Float: A floating point number. Floats are represented in interfaces by java.lang.Float. They store a four byte floating point number.
Constants are represented as floating point numbers with f appended, for example, 2.18f.
Double: A double precision floating point number. Doubles are represented in interfaces by java.lang.Double. They store a eight byte 
floating point number. Constants are represented either as floating point numbers or in exponent notation, for example, 32.12567 or
3e-17.
Chararray: A string or array of characters. Represented in interfaces by java.lang.String. Constant chararrays are represented by 
single quotes, for example, 'constant chararray'.
Bytearray: A blob or array of bytes. Represented by java class DataByteArray which wraps a java byte[]. There is no way to specify 
a bytearray constant.
